# PROJECT PROPOSAL
By Priyavrat Gupta and Shaan Mehta;

## The Big Idea:
For the final project, the team decided to work on something that we are passionate about - football. We both play the Fifa game - Ultimate Team and wanted to do something with that, since we had even done an in-class assignment related to Ultimate Team. We found that the game mode - FUT Draft was quite interesting and would be fun and challenging to recreate using Python and what we have learned in class so far. The FUT Draft game mode is an extremely interesting mode of creating a dream team and players find it really fun primarily because it is based on randomness. For our project, we will create a ditionary of players which we will try to get from a FUT 22 player database like FutBin or Futhead. The dictionary will contain the top rated defenders, goalkeppers, attackers and midfielders and will be saved with their name, rting and position. We want our game to give the user a chance to create a team based on their favorite player from the options provided and battle it out against the computer's team. We will use a standard formation of one goalkeeper, 4 defenders, 4 midfielders and 2 forwards. For each position, the code will randomly give the user an option of 5 players, from which, they would have to choose 1. This would be repeated 4 times for defenders and modfielders and twice for forwards. Once they went through the process, they would end up with a team of 11 players. While they are creating a team, the computer simeltaneously creates a team and when both teams are created, the team with the higher average rating wins the match. See if your Dream Eleven can beat the Computer!!!!

## Learning Goals:
We really want to focus on learning Object Oriented Progrming in this project. Priyavrat wanted to learn the intricacies of OOP for an internship and Shaan just generally was really passionate about learning it and about trying to replicate a game that he is extremely passionate about. It will be a little challenging to create the appropriate Class and apply corrrect methods on it to get our desired output. Though it may seem easy, our preliminary research has indicated that it will be a little challenging to randmoize options from the player databse and create a team through these selections. We would love for others passionate about coding and FUT to use this program and possibly even try to add to it, since there is so much in the world of FUT. It will be an interesting engaging project as there are millions of people that play the game and will understand it. We also want to learn how to format code correctly so that it is easy to understand and we will be able to work on larger projects without our commits getting rejected. 

## Implementation Plan:
Our plan is to first figure out how to create the database of players. We are thinking of creating dictionaries of player positions within a larger dictionary of Players, so that we can easily get the exact line in the dictionary that we need. Once we have developed our databse, we will move on to defining the class, which will likely be Players and defining important functions within the Class. We will use online resources and Professor Li's code and personal help to find the most appropriate methods that can help us get the exact results that we want. Once we have developed the moethods, we will carefully have to store the selected players into a user's team and simulate the computer's team. Finally, once we are able to create the user's team and the computer's team, we will try to add more interesting features if we are able to. We think that the most challenging thing for this project will be to define the correct method functions and debugging. Since it is a relatively large databse, it can be a little tricky.

## Project Schedule:
Since we only have a few weeks to implement this project, we have structured our plan to accommodate for any delays so that we can submit the project on time. We are keeping a very flexible schedule so that we can devote our maximum time and effort to it. Our intial plan will be to test the feasability of the project by the second last week of April and create the databse in the same week. Once that is done, we plan on identifying the appropriate methods to run by the following week and in the last week, we plan on debugging and trying to add more interesting attributes and functions. The part of identifying and applying the correct functions is expected to be the most tricky and take the most amount of time.

## Collaboration Plan:
We are close friends who work well together as a team. We plan on meeting after our classes each day in person or in Webex to work on this project together. We will break up this project into many parts and make a document assigning a leadership role for each part. The leader will be responsible for his parts but we will help each other out with everything and work on the whole project together. This will just motivate us more to ensure that everything is completed and we will hold each other responsible for completing each task. 

## Risks:
The biggest challenge we will face in this is finding the correct methods to get the exact output and process that we want to show. Since we have a particular way in which we want the user to select the players and create a database from it, we will need to use all the appropriate methods like give player selection, add player to team, add rating, calculate rating, etc. in the exact method. If we are not able to figure out what chain of methods will give us our desired output, we will not be able to generate the game in the manner that we hope to.

## Additional Course Content:
1) Some more classes and additional information on OOP and FuT.py would be very helpful.
2) A class on formatting code and beautifying it will be really nice.